exactly what does it mean China is
having this bado navigation system is it
going to be competitor against let's say
other systems u.s. GPS Russia's Colonus
and also Europeans Galileo well he
started to say there are more
cooperation or more competition you know
GPS every day occupier the most ideal
orbit the attitude of 20,000 and the 200
the period of the orbit is just half a
day and it will repeat its ground track
every two days this is very convenient
for the ground operations so there to
have some conflict in orbit and also
frequency resources but there are also
many corporations you know the feature
of this kind of navigation system based
on the processing of location signals
from the central head to the ground and
if there are more satellites in the sky
there will be more accurate for the
receiver customers so it will be more
convenient for us to have both the GPS
colonna's Caleo and bado and we will
benefit from this but professor Z Park
is it likely to happen I mean the real
cooperation among these kind different
kinds of navigation system runs
certainly by different countries well
the first thing that's important is that
each system can operate without
interfering with the other systems and
that's a principle which is broadly
accepted which is good much better than
that is if the signals from multiple
constellations can be measured by a
single receiver a single device then
then the consumer and scientists can
make imaginative use of that combination
of the satellite signals and therefore
is there possibility for cooperation is
that already on the horizon professor
it's a broadly accepted principle
everyone anything anybody wants these
things to work against each other but
because it's difficult because people
want to get the best possible orbits and
get the best possible signals but so far
the story looks good the future looks
bright shall we say all right
dr. Sheldon does the future look as
bright as what professor z-bar just
described to you from a commercial and
civil point of view absolutely the more
systems there are in orbit the better it
is for all the users around the world
including in China and the United States
from a military point of view and
hopefully this is something that will
never happen but if there is a conflict
between countries that own these systems
then that might be a different story at
this moment I want your comment sir
because 98% is claimed by China the
components may be making these two
satellites just being launched actually
are made in China a very much produced
in China element of it what does it mean
to many others around the world looking
at China's recent progress in this
regard this is a tremendous progress for
China and also marks China is of course
one of the leading space powers in the
world because being am leading space
power is not just about putting human
beings in orbit and returning them
safely and launching all kinds of
satellites it's also about having a very
strong industrial base and China is
certainly developing that and if 98
percent of all the components on these
latest bado satellites are indeed made
in China than that's immense progress
for China and also its industrial base
and supply chain of course professor dr.
Sheldon mentioned something about the
dual use one is about the military uses
so how is China going to look at the
issue well developing his navigation
system while others are observing very
closely as to which area where China
touch on mr. young well of course there
are both military and civil use of the
navigation system but worldwide of
course it is true for every country have
this but I should emphasize that for a
big country like China it must have its
own navigation system this is very
important for the security of the of the
country's country you can see that
post-american both Russia and even India
have his own navigation system although
some of them are global and some of the
regional and also Japan has its own
regional enhancement of
GPS signals so you can you can say that
it is necessary for every country at
this moment we see some very interesting
developments from different sides give
some of the recent news for example mr.
Yao I really want to know your thought
here for example China has been
announcing its going to the moon project
yes and also China has been talking
about recent progress on the navigation
system well at the same time you look at
China's counterpart NASA for example yes
in Washington talking recently about the
outer space exploration pretty much of a
romantic description of the you know the
nephews and the so-called in the outer
space
so it seems at least apparently
different countries are communicating
with the public and the international
community about their recent progress in
a very different way what do you think
about these different approaches how
much does it represent a generational
difference in terms of the technological
levels and what does it mean for the
future chosen path might be of these
different countries mr. young briefly
from you first
well I've mentioned before that china is
still developing country and also I
mentioned that there are direct and
indirect report from space technology
for China because we still have a long
way to go and still the United States is
now placed a leading role in space
technology we still have a very long way
to go to catch up with the United States
so at current stage I think it is a wise
choice for us to invest money on those
projects which can have many much more
more direct reward from from it and also
we should develop the technology which
is not very not too difficult for us at
current state I see professor Ziebart
your observation well first of all I'd
like to say what a great idea it is for
China to develop they do since 2007 more
than half the world's population lives
in cities and it's difficult to navigate
and find your way around a city but if
you have a smartphone and a satellite
navigation system and a digital map then
it's a true
you're straightforward thing to do so I
think it's important for China's
sovereignty to be able to rely upon a
system that it can develop and then it
can plan economic development around
availability of those signals so it's a
very good thing developing Bo do for
sure then beyond that China is a country
with vast natural resources a huge
population a huge land mass and
sometimes some difficult environmental
conditions like earthquakes so space
technology can help solve all those
problems and I think China will find its
own distinctive solutions to those
problems through having assets in space
hmm dr. Sheldon what do you make of it I
mean the different approaches apparently
at least by China and the United States
about what should be the next stage to
focus on well I mean we have two
different programs obviously many of
them use the same technologies but these
are two programs that are done for very
different purposes by and large we must
also remember that you know China while
it is becoming a very major space power
is also a young space power the United
States has been doing this for over 50
years so in many ways there's a question
here of been there done that while at
the same time though there is you know a
lot of goodwill towards China and it's
its achievements and ambitions but I
will say this about bado the other
aspect of bado for China is this
diplomatic and geopolitical implications
with China developing its one belt one
Road initiative and so on there will be
a space Silk Road a part of those
initials and bado will play a critical
role